Since  Covid-19  forced distance learning on schools across the country, a maths and science  app developed by NMU’s Govan Mbeki Mathematics Development Centre has been providing critical support for pupils in every province. The free and downloadable phone app — called MobiTutorZA — provides CAPS curriculum-linked content for grade 8-12 pupils  in the form of self-tests, practice exam papers, and content explanations in eight  languages. It also offers  the MobiMatric revision programme, which prepares grade 12 pupils  for a mock exam in preparation for their finals. The app has also become the hub of three national competitions run annually by GMMDC. This includes  a mathematics competition where pupils  compete over two rounds, a year-long “leader board” competition with  monthly tasks, and a financial mathematics competition, where  children tackle maths problems that have a financial component. The winners of all three competitions,  sponsored in 2020  by the Capitec Foundation, received prizes worth R30,000 at a recent  function, which learners could attend in person or via Zoom. “We are trying to use technology and specifically, our MobiTutorZA app, to advance the problem solving-skills of learners, and to support their learning, particularly over distance as this is becoming more and more important,”  GMMDC director Prof Werner Olivier said when addressing teachers, parents and pupils  at the prizegiving. The app is being used by more than 3,000 pupils with more than 400 entering the competitions.  “The app also allows teachers to set up their own unique tests for learners to complete over distance,”  Olivier said. GMMDC’s Dr Phil Collett, who co-ordinated the competitions, said the app provided pupils  with the opportunity to practise maths and science. “Practice is an important component of building competence. “The app gives learners the opportunity to practice a range of skills, from the most basic to the most challenging problem-solving-type skills, allowing them to really get to know mathematics or science in a range of different ways, which is necessary for success.” HeraldLIVE