Formex Industries employees on  Thursday picketed  over what they claim is the company’s failure to release funding from the Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) temporary employee relief scheme (Ters). The  workers  claimed the company submitted and received funds from Ters on their behalf, but refuses to pay them. Andile Peter, who works at Formex in Markman, said: “Our employer said on March 24 there would be a no work,  no pay policy during the lockdown; our human resources office told us they weren’t given money by the government. “That is when the  National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa intervened, they engaged with our employer and our union representative told us we’d be paid for a week. “We later [investigated and] found out our employer claimed from the UIF fund in order to pay us for the week when the president extended the lockdown.” According to another employee, Wiseman Yona, Formex allegedly consulted with less than 40% of workers and he claims they decided on paying the workers from their annual leave. “Minister of employment and labour Thulas Nxesi on television said the annual leave should not be used by employers, the UIF funds would be utilised. “On level 4 of the lockdown when we returned to work we were surprised to be told that we owe the company money, because they took from our annual leave and we wouldn’t be paid. “We told the employer we couldn’t work while we were hungry, we investigated and found out Formex  had received R485,000 from the UIF fund and they told us it was for workers that earned monthly and not weekly,” Yona said. Peter said  the funding was allegedly received on April 19 and claimed that certain Formex  workers were paid in May after The Herald  reported on their strike. Formex Industries CEO Henny Venter said he was confident about the position of the company  and it was not going to discuss the matter  through the newspaper. Numsa  regional secretary Mziyanda Twani said  the union was  in talks with the employer concerning the issue.