Nelson Mandela Bay has lost  more than R1bn in revenue to electrical theft and technical losses over the past three years. The shocking figure was revealed by  co-operative governance MEC  Xolile Nqatha, who was  responding to parliamentary questions tabled by DA MPL Vicky Knoetze. Knoetze had asked questions about  electricity tariffs  charged by municipalities and regulated by the National Energy Regulator of SA. Nqatha said the figure included February this year. According to Nqatha’s response, non-technical losses made up nearly two-thirds of the loss,  totalling  more than R634-million,  while technical losses accounted for  more than R406-million in the past three financial years. The non-technical loss  was a result of   energy being dissipated by equipment such as conductors and distribution lines. The metro’s ratepayers could bear the brunt from July 1 if proposed electricity, water, refuse and property hikes are approved. The municipality  wants electricity  tariffs to go up 6.22%,  water, sanitation and refuse rates   8% and   property rates 8.5%. It  has come under fire from  political parties, including the DA and the Patriotic Alliance, for “milking consumers” already under financial stress as a result of the nationwide lockdown. Municipal spokesperson Mamela Ndamase said the city lost about R350m  a year to electricity theft and technical losses. She said the city had adopted various strategies to control the issue. These included: “We are going on tender soon to procure an integrated smart metering management solution to detect meter tampering remotely and avoid physical inspection.” The system will include GPS, smart metering and bulk meters. “We want to detect meter tampering in real time. “If you bypass a meter, an alert will be sent out  with the address and that will allow us to switch the user off remotely as well,” Ndamase said. Ndamase said the municipality had migrated about 50% of commercial meters to the automated meter solution system. On Thursday, the DA’s Knoetze said while technical losses  were inevitable, the losses experienced by the metro  could be considered excessive and could  point to poor maintenance. “Technical losses can be reduced by ensuring regular inspections and continuous maintenance of electricity infrastructure as well as by supplying high-energy consumers directly from feeders. “The Nelson Mandela Bay municipality must ensure that a programme is in place to regularly inspect, maintain and repair electricity infrastructure and ensure innovative measures are taken to prevent technical losses,” Knoetze said. “Just imagine what the city could have done with the R1bn  in revenue that was lost.” She called for the municipality to put in place a strategy that included a detailed plan of the inspection, maintenance, replacement and upgrade of existing electricity infrastructure — which is up to 40 years old in parts of the metro. To achieve this, the party called for: • The use of alternative energy solutions such as solar  and wind power, especially in the effort to connect informal users; • The use of spiderweb connections (one pole with four users connected, which included meters); • Metered connections in informal areas; • The rollout of tamper-proof meters; and • An amnesty period for users  with meters that had been tampered with.