The department of correctional services has vowed to act against detainees seen brandishing weapons  in the Butterworth Correctional Centre. In a viral video posted on Twitter on Wednesday, prisoners are seen shouting “Madoda ndivezene” [ men show my face] while others  shout out their complaints about the facility in the background. This while most of them waved handmade weapons resembling pangas and knives inside the crowded cell. Department spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo said the department was aware of the incident and the matter would be dealt with harshly. “The department of correctional services  is aware of a video making rounds on social media, wherein rowdy remand detainees can be seen armed with man-made sharpened objects chanting and singing,” Nxumalo said. “This is an incident of  June 14  at Butterworth Correctional Centre where the 34 remand detainees closed the cell door with beds and demanded that they be taken to court even though the court was closed due to confirmed Covid-19 cases.” In the just over two-minute-long  video, another prisoner asks: “Men, what are your complaints?” in isiXhosa and one responds they are tired of being searched because of the coronavirus. “We are tired of being searched by prison warders here in Butterworth — the warders must stop disrespecting us.” Another prisoner interjects: “The food that we eat is not healthy and clean ... and it is being sold to us [prisoners] by ‘Musa’. “The manager here does not listen to the needs and wants of prisoners ... they only swear at us.” Another prisoner then interjects saying the manager  says  prisoners should be hit. A forth detainee  says their main concern is that they are not taken to court. “The manager here has said that we should not be taken to the courtrooms ... he says that we should be hit when we demand to be taken to court ... another policeman here has been pointing at us with a gun.” The video becomes chaotic with different prisoners shouting their complaints about the prison allegedly bringing warders with Covid-19 from East London to Butterworth. The video then ends with all the prisoners in the group posing with the weapons. Department spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo said the department was aware of the incident. Nxumalo  described it  as an act of hooliganism and thuggery showing utter disregard for authority. “It becomes very disturbing when those remanded in custody display no respect for law as such acts can only perpetuate an intent to disobey laws of the country. “Such infernal behaviour by remandees has no place in correctional services and shall be dealt with harshly whenever it tries to rear its ugly head,” he said. Nxumalo did elaborate on how the weapons landed up in the prison, simply saying: “Searching was also conducted in an effort to remove all contraband. “The ringleaders were identified and relocated as disciplinary action is being meted against all participants.”