The SA National Editors Forum (Sanef) on Sunday laid bare to President Cyril Ramaphosa journalists’ grievances and difficulties in covering   the coronavirus pandemic. In a virtual discussion  with Ramaphosa, Sanef chair  Mahlatse Mahlase listed retrenchments, salary cuts, Covid-19 infections and deaths, intimidation by  police and a lack of information from government offices as the media’s daily challenges. Mahlase said publications were among those hardest hit by the pandemic, with some organisations having to retrench workers or impose salary cuts, at times up to 40%. She highlighted that several journalists had contracted the virus while in the line of duty. One of them, eNCA cameraman Lungile Tom, died. Mahlase said there was also difficulty in obtaining information from some government departments about  how they were dealing with the virus. This made it difficult for  journalists to produce reports that contained the voices of government authorities. Mahlase also highlighted how some police officers continued to hinder journalists  who were trying to work. In one instance, journalist Paul Nthoba was forced to flee  to Lesotho after  a confrontation with police. “He was confronted by police saying he had no right to film them,” Mahlase said. Nthoba was assaulted and he drove to the police station, hoping to lay a charge but “he was refused  and the police instead wanted to a lay charge against him”, Mahlase said. Nthoba chose to flee the country after  noticing  police were watching him. “He wants to return home,” Mahlase said. Ramaphosa thanked the media for their sterling work in covering the  pandemic. On the issue of Nthoba, he said: “I am going to direct the minister of police [Bheki Cele] to ensure he has safe passage back into the country and he is not subjected to any molestation ... any threats or harassment because as you correctly say, he was simply doing his work. “Police have no business to interfere with that.” He said he was unhappy about this and the fact that several journalists had contracted the virus, with one dying. Ramaphosa said he would continue to engage regularly with the media,  adding that it had made an indispensable contribution to the country’s fight against the pandemic. During the meeting with Sanef, Ramaphosa highlighted how the bulk of the masks, ventilators and testing kits were still being procured from China and distributed across the continent. Ramaphosa said he had appointed an envoy for the continent “to scour the world for diagnostic and medical supplies” which would assist SA in its fight against the virus. “We have been able to have great success in the last few days of getting the suppliers in China to agree to make available up to 30-million test kits per month for us on the African continent. “They will also make available 10,000 ventilators a month and 80-million masks a month for our continent and what we are doing is to now set up a procurement platform which we are going to launch next week,” he said. This platform would allow every African county to be able to procure from a central place and benefit from the scale on which this envoy would be buying. “We are also adding our own [SA suppliers] to that platform,” Ramaphosa said. “SA suppliers who are making our masks and ventilators are also going to be put on this platform and other suppliers and manufacturers on our continent. “So we are building a huge platform that is going to enable countries on our continent to acquire these diagnostic and therapeutic medical supplies with greater ease and, as we launch it, we will explain how the procurement process will work.” He said since the procurement would be done on such a large scale, this would also open doors for the airline industry, particularly the troubled SAA. “We have said we will fetch those supplies ... And these will be transported through SAA, Kenyan Airways and Ethiopian Airways. “So Johannesburg will become the hub. Addis Ababa will become another hub,” he said. “So this is going to give a great boost to SAA because this process will be going on for many months to come.” He continued to express confidence in the manner in which SA has tackled the coronavirus pandemic, saying more than 13-m South Africans had been screened and almost a million tested. “This is a phenomenal achievement seen  against what is happening in other countries but more particularly on our own continent. “We are testing much more than others but we will not stand on roof tops and boast about this like others do,” he said. With millions of people set to return to work on Monday,   Ramaphosa said the screening and testing efforts would also need to be beefed up. “As people return to work and schooling as well, we will be significantly expanding the screening efforts to all places where people congregate. “However, with such a high proportion of asymptomatic cases, we need to complement screening with a range of other preventive measures. “We also need to be more targeted with our testing due to the global shortage of test kits and supplies,” he said. One aspect in which SA was lacking was its contact tracing. Ramaphosa said SA traced an average of two contacts for each confirmed case of the coronavirus whereas other countries were identifying 20 contacts per case. “[That] is quite phenomenal and that is where we want to get to,” Ramaphosa said.    — TimesLIVE