Nelson Mandela Bay school governing body chairs are sceptical about the department of basic education’s decision to reopen schools on August 24, with some calling for the remainder of the school year to be forfeited. John Walton Secondary School and McCarthy Senior Secondary School SGB chair Donovan Buys said schools should remain closed for the rest of the year, unless the government provided a clear plan to ensure all schools’ needs are met. “The thing is, we have been complaining about the same things that have resulted in schools closing every other week, yet there hasn’t been communication of any solutions, so what will have changed between now and August 24? Nothing,” he said. “It seems the government is looking at temporary measures to a long-term problem. “Covid-19 cases are still rising like they were before schools closed and parents and learners are still scared. What is the actual solution?” Northern Areas Schools Readiness Programme chair Aarief Davids said it was best for schools to remain closed with the exception of grades 7 and 12. “Our sentiment is that schools should focus only on grades 7 and 12 so they can write exams, but all the others should be promoted to the next grade because what can they learn in the remaining three months of the school year?” Davids said he would meet with SGB chairs over the matter in the week. Mfesane High School SGB chair Siphiwo Dayimani said it was unrealistic to expect pupils to complete the  year from August 24. “There simply isn’t enough time for pupils to cover everything, even with the new calendar,” he said. “The department of education must do the right thing and forfeit the year. “Let pupils return to school next year. “Just focus on ensuring grades 7 and 12 are able to complete and let all other grades be condoned to the next grade next year,” he said. Northern Areas Education Forum chair Richard Draai said the main concern was the spike in Covid-19 infections. He said schools’ readiness would depend on the pattern of infections in the next three weeks. “Right now we just have to wait and see how the situation will be in the next three weeks. “When schools did open there was an issue of very low attendance and we foresee the same thing happening if schools open while infections are rising. “No parents want to send their children to a school with Covid-19 cases. “We hope the government will keep a close eye on infections,” Draai said. The department of basic education on Saturday released a revised calendar for the 2020 school year, which will see schools reopening on August 24. In a statement released on Saturday, the department said it had been huddled in consultations with stakeholders after President Cyril Ramaphosa announced two weeks ago that schools would be closed for a month. In his announcement, he said grade 12 pupils and teachers would only take a one-week break, returning to school on August 3. Grade 7 pupils would go back to class on August 10 after a two-week break. “The department considered the impact of the decision on the current calendar,” the statement reads. “The policy process to amend the school calendar commenced considering the urgency of the matter as necessitated by the prevalent Covid-19 environment.” In terms of the new version of the calendar, schools will resume on August 24. There are 163 actual school days for teachers and 156 for pupils. “The school year will be completed on December 15 for grades R to 11 ... that it is not carried over to the first quarter of 2021.” To separate the third and fourth school terms, there will be a one-week break from October 26 to October 30. “The teaching, learning and assessment for the 2020 academic year must be concluded by December 15 2020 for grades R to 11.” Grade 12 examinations will be completed by this time and the marking of papers will be wrapped up by January 22. Results will be released on February 23. The new school year will commence on January 25 for teachers and pupils a few days later However, Nelson Mandela Bay school governing body chairs remain sceptical about the new date, saying the remaining school year should be forfeited. - HeraldLIVE