Lebanese security forces deployed heavily in Beirut on Thursday, stopping protesters from reaching a conference centre where MPs began meeting for the first time since the catastrophic chemicals explosion last week that killed 172 people. Senior US official David Hale is expected in Beirut later on Thursday to stress the urgent need for financial and governance reforms, ending endemic corruption and bringing transparency, among other messages, the US embassy said. The August 4 blast at a warehouse storing highly explosive material in Beirut port injured about  6,000 people, left about 300,000 without habitable housing and wrecked swathes of the city. Another 30-40 people are still missing more than a week after the blast. The authorities say the blast was caused by more than 2,000 tonnes of ammonium nitrate stored for years without safety measures. Roads to the Unesco Palace on the southern outskirts of the capital, where parliament has met during the Covid-19 pandemic, were blocked with metal gates in anticipation of the protest by demonstrators furious at a political elite they blame for the blast. “They are all criminals, they are who caused this catastrophe, this explosion,” said Lina Boubess, 60, a protester who was trying to reach Unesco Palace. “Isn't it enough that they stole our money, our lives, our dreams and the dreams of our children?” Outrage at the explosion has fuelled protests in which hundreds of people have been injured in confrontations between security forces and demonstrators. The government of prime minister Hassan Diab resigned earlier this week. The agenda of the parliamentary session includes a discussion of a state of emergency declared by the government, said a senior political source. The resignation of eight MPs who quit after the blast are also expected to be confirmed. But parliament speaker Nabih Berri, a pillar of the sectarian elite, also “wants to give a political message — that the parliament exists — despite all this talk about early elections”, said the source. Humanitarian aid has poured in but foreign countries have made clear they will not provide funds to help pull Lebanon from economic collapse without action on long-demanded reforms to tackle systemic graft, waste, mismanagement and negligence. Authorities have estimated losses at $15bn (R261bn), a bill Lebanon cannot pay: it defaulted on its enormous sovereign debt in March, citing critically low foreign currency reserves. The government's talks with the International Monetary Fund for a bailout had stalled. Politicians are in early consultations over forming a new cabinet. The government, which stays on in a caretaker capacity, came to office in January with backing from parties including the  Iran-backed Shiite group Hezbollah, Lebanon’s most powerful party. Together with its allies, they have a majority of seats in parliament. The US proscribes Hezbollah as a terrorist group. — Reuters