“It is better to die in for an idea that will live forever than to live for an idea that will soon die,” Steve Biko famously said and today we remember defining events which led to the Uitenhage Massacre of 1985. The formation of the Youth Congresses and United Democratic Front was a key milestone in SA’s revolution during the 1980s. It ushered an era of unprecedented youth mobilisation in the battle against apartheid injustice in all its forms. The Eastern Cape,  Uitenhage in particular, became the focal point of mass mobilisation and popular struggles that led to the collapse of illegitimate municipal structure and  subsequent panic of the Nationalist Party government. The UN declared 1985 as the International Year of the Youth and this declaration seemed to have encouraged the youth of SA to deepen their resolve to liberate their country in their lifetime. The ANC’s then president,  OR Tambo, made the call during the same year that “we must make the country ungovernable and apartheid unworkable”. There was no other noble call to follow and respect like that one. Youth and  workers were highly mobilised and sacrificed their prime age and education in confronting an enemy with  strong state machinery. Needless to say, during this time   there were many casualties and the state began to unleash its might. According to the Kannemeyer Commission report, “in March 1985, tensions in Uitenhage townships reached a boiling point. The minister of law and order visited Uitenhage and had been told that soft weaponry was no longer effective for riot control purposes, and they decided to take stronger action to regain control”. This was the beginning of the events that would lead  to the Langa Massacre. In that  period, the police used ammunition and murdered six unarmed protesters. Four of those were to be buried on Sunday  March 17, and a stay away was called for on Monday  March 18 — Black Weekend —  to protest against the killings. The funeral was banned and the stayaway was declared illegal. Activists were harassed and detained, and one  activist, Norman Kona, was arrested and tortured. In response to the banning, the funeral was moved to the  March 21 (Sharpeville Day), and a further stayaway was called on the day. The funeral was to be held in KwaNobuhle and everybody engaged in the struggle locally  wanted to be there. On the morning of March 21, people from Langa resolved to march to the funeral in  KwaNobuhle, but as they came down Maduna Road, they were met by heavy guards of police in Caspers armed with heavy live ammunition. These unarmed mourners had resolved to go and bury their comrades who were murdered by the same police. The police informed the marchers that the funeral has been banned and so their gathering was illegal. Leaders could not even address the marchers before the police opened fire and murdered 21 innocent people. According to the Kannemeyer Commission and eye witnesses, most of those murdered were shot in  the back, meaning  they were running for cover. Among them was a 14-year-old boy. That carnage  drew international and local attention, and further calls for the isolation of SA. The people’s demands were clear and simple: The people’s struggles continued throughout the Eastern Cape and countrywide. A week after  the victims of Langa were buried,  they were at the Dan Qeqe Stadium to bury  eight victims  killed as the masses were protesting against the Langa Massacre. The apartheid regime was resolute to silence any form of dissent. For the first time since the Sharpeville Massacre a state of emergency was declared and thousands of activists throughout SA were detained. The Uitenhage Massacre and  the mass struggles of 1985 set the tone for the people’s revolution. Post-liberation, the scars of the Uitenhage Massacre are still visible to this day. Many of the survivors, their parents and relatives will never recover. The country is free and there is a black government, but the fundamental economic and social contradictions have not been fully resolved: As we remember the Sharpeville and Langa Massacres, let us resolve to double our efforts to achieve what these heroes and heroines laid down their lives for. Anything less would be a betrayal of that noble sacrifice. In conclusion, it was encouraging to read this week that the Premier has moved to try to resolve the old grievance of the victims and relatives of the Langa Massacre.