Two suspected burglars were caught  after breaking into Pep Stores, mere metres away from police officials who were  refilling their vehicle at a nearby petrol station. The bust came after two police officers  standing at a petrol station in Durban Road at about 11.15pm on Sunday were alerted to men walking down the road carrying large bags. Police spokesperson Captain Sandra Janse van Rensburg said  the policemen went to  look and saw the suspects running away. The suspects  got into a Ford Ikon. “The police members went to their vehicle and began following the Ford.  As they approached it, the car accelerated. “A car chase then ensued after the driver refused to pull  over,” she said. “The car chase  went down Durban Road towards Holland Park, with the Ikon trying to weave in and out of various streets  at high speed.” Janse van Rensburg said  the driver of the Ikon eventually lost control and veered off the road at the intersection of  McHardy  and Larch avenues  in Holland Park. “The vehicle collided into the fence of a primary school,” she said. “The suspects grabbed some of the bags and ran in different directions. A foot chase ensued and two suspects, aged 30 and 37, were arrested. “The members searched the vehicle and also picked up the bags that the suspects dropped in an attempt to get away.” After looking in the bags,  the police officers established the items were from Pep Stores, she said. “They went to the store and the found that a back door had been  forced open and the shop ransacked.” Some of the goods recovered include cell phones, clothing, DStv decoders and cash  worth an estimated R100,000. In an unrelated robbery, earlier on the same day, four men were arrested in Port Elizabeth for robbing  a spaza shop in Jacobs Street, Humansdorp, at about 11.30am. Police spokesperson Colonel Priscilla Naidu said  four men entered the store and bought a box of cigarettes. “While handing the money over, the teller was grabbed and pulled over the counter. “Three of the men then went behind the counter and stole cartons of cigarettes and some money,” she said. “The men then fled the store.” By 3pm, police spotted the getaway bakkie driving in Bethelsdorp. “The bakkie was pulled over and four suspects arrested.  Boxes of cigarettes were found in their possession,” she said. All suspects are due to appear in  court on Tuesday.