“All the news and information shared on social media platforms are causing panic but we need to stay human.” Those were the words of a Chinese takeaway owner on Tuesday, who said his business had taken a serious punch after the news of SA’s  first case of  Covid-19 broke two weeks ago. The 50-year-old, who did not want to be named, said from pulling in at least 150 orders a day, he was lucky to get 30 now. “I understand people are nervous because the virus is from China, but is it fair to be stereotyped because I am Chinese?" The takeaway owner said his Chinese food store had been open for 17 years and that he had lived in SA since 1991. “This is home for me and this is my livelihood. “The economy is already down because of load-shedding but my customers know that I use a gas stove — so the business didn’t go down that much. “But [now] I’m very nervous about the future of my business. “In Cape Town and Joburg, most of the Chinese restaurants I know have closed down — even China City,” the 50-year-old said. Though he said he would give his shop two months before deciding whether to shut down,  other store owners from China Town in the Kings Court Centre in Buffelsfontein Road said it was business as usual — just with  added precautionary measures. Store manager at the New Feeling clothing store in China Town, Raeesa Begg, said the store had not lost much business in the past two weeks. “We are a wholesaling business and we supply smaller shop owners, so we haven’t lost any business in that aspect. “However, the retail side in terms of walk-in customers, business is a bit slow. “People have this perception that coronavirus is Chinese, which is totally wrong. “For those concerned customers, we have gloves and hand sanitisers readily available. “Our staff have also been informed of the health measures that have been informed by the department of health, and we are all wearing gloves and using hand sanitisers in between,” she said. On the other end of China Town, CYA global store manager Johnny Zhang said people needed to be more realistic. “The only way of getting the virus is if you come into contact with someone who has tested positive,” Zhang said. He said though there had been a slight decrease in business, he could not say whether  it was as a direct result of the stereotypes around the virus. “In the shop, we have sanitisers and wipes at the entrance, but that has always been there for our customers who use trolleys. “Our staff are also required to maintain a healthy lifestyle at work and outside the shop because that is where the issue is. “Of course I cannot tell the staff not to go out, but I have cautioned them that they should try to wash their hands regularly and if they feel sick to stay at home until they can provide a medical certificate that says they are fit to work,” Zhang said. At the Toro Sushi, Teppanyaki and Seafood restaurant, which specialises in Japanese food but also serves Western meals and is also situated in the Kings Court Centre,  manager Wynand Gillian said they checked  their staff members’ temperatures at least twice a day. “It’s too soon to say whether the panic around [Covid-19] will negatively impact business — we were buzzing over the weekend so things are still good,” he said. “We are strictly following all health precautions. Our staff are here the whole day so we check their temperatures at least twice a day. “If their temperature spikes we will send them home and they will be required to have a full medical examination,” Gillian said.