Kwazakhele residents  found the body of a dead baby on Thursday morning, dumped at a rubbish site in Madikane Street near the Wolfson Stadium. The police have opened a case of murder  and appealed to the community to come forward with any relevant information. Nolusindiso Magida, 43, who found the body, said she had been passing the dumping site at about 9.30am while on her way  to work when a  a woman who was picking up plastic bottles called her to check the body. “When I realised it was a child I quickly called the councillor and  then covered it with foil,” she said. Magida said it was not the first time a dead body had been found at the dumping site and she urged the municipality to clean up the area. “I had to stay there and watch over the body as I was scared that the dogs might start to feast on it,” she said. Ward 19 councillor Gamalihleli Maqula, who contacted the police,  said the municipality needed to act before another body was found. “There should be bylaws of the municipality that they can use. And also clean up the property and demolish the building [on the site]. “I have also informed the environmental people about the matter,” he said. Maqula urged the police to prioritise the investigation and find the mother of the dead child. “The police need to investigate and go house to house and find the mother. “It can’t be that difficult. Now they need to work harder on the case,” he said. Ward 18 councillor Lungiswa Mnyimba  said the building needed to be demolished and property  enclosed. “The municipality has cleaned the property several times and the residents still use it as a dumping site and such things happen,” Mnyimba said. Police spokesperson Captain Andre Beetge said   baby girl appeared to have been between  one and three months old. “The police are investigating a case of murder as it was not an abortion and also blood was found on the corpse,” Beetge said. Anyone who can assist in tracing the mother is asked to contact the New Brighton and Kwazakhele police.