Springboks, you are forgiven! That was the collective voice of residents from Uitenhage and the northern areas  on Wednesday when members of the victorious Rugby World Cup-winning team made their way back to Nelson Mandela Bay after a tour in November had left many fans bitterly disappointed. The original victory tour, which started at the City Hall on November 10, was meant to pass through Stanford Road, but time constraints put paid to that, to the dismay of large numbers of fans. Several other stops, including the Kamesh Road and Acacia Avenue “four way” — a popular gathering point in Rosedale, Uitenhage —   were also skipped when the tour deviated from the scheduled route. Thousands of Bok supporters were left disappointed after they had waited in the cold and rain, with many saying those living in “coloured areas” had once again been snubbed. But the mood was jubilant on Wednesday, when key members of the all-conquering SA team returned to the city to make it up to the fans. Ecstatic Rosedale resident Anglique Uithaler  she never imagined that the Springbok captain — the Bay’s own Siya Kolisi —  would one day be sitting “five steps outside my yard”. “This is an amazing feeling. I’m a New Zealand  supporter but today I’m here to support ...  because they represent South Africa,” Uithaler said. “I love that they came to  communities in the location. “There’s a lot of shooting in ‘four way’ because of gangsters. It was really nice to have the kids take their focus away from the gangs. “They don’t have a lot of role models here [so] to see their role models today really made their day.” Only two members of the Cup-winning Bok squad — Kolisi and Bongi Mbonambi — as well as assistant coach Mzwandile Stick, attended Wednesday’s “apology tour” but this did not  deter scores of ecstatic fans who lined the streets to greet their heroes. After the  November tour, Eastern Province Rugby Union general manager Thando Manana called on the Springboks  to return to the city. This after Khoi and San activist Christian Martin locked staff members out of the  union’s offices at 7am on November 11, demanding to know why the Bok tour had not included the northern areas and “four way”. On Wednesday, Martin said he was  happy the Boks had returned. “I’m also aware of other people that have put pressure on Saru, through social media, through letters. “This was a collective effort, I could  never have done it alone, I just went physically to show how we felt, I don’t want to claim any victories to myself. “Mission accomplished,” Martin said, adding that all was now forgiven. Ronnie Madatt, 53,  of West End, in the Northern Areas, said he was among the people  who had waited for the Springboks four months ago in the rain and cold. “I’ve supported the Springboks since I was a child back when we could only listen to a Bok vs NZ match over the radio at 4:30am,” he said. “When they didn’t come I was ready to never support them again but to have our first black captain from  PE here today means everything to us and we forgive them.” Madatt said   though  many of the fans had hoped that more than two Springboks could return to the city, they appreciated that they had at least come to apologise. Jeanpoul Jacobus, a 15-year-old pupil at   McCarthy High School in Uitenhage,   got an opportunity to take a photo with Kolisi and Mbonambi. The Bok contingent were also welcomed to the Nelson Mandela Bay council chambers on Wednesday, where Kolisi thanked councillors and fans for their support. 