 The Eastern Cape government is setting up  checkpoints at all points of entry to the province, as well as field hospitals in rural areas, while the Nelson Mandela Bay municipality has postponed 23 events, including the Easter weekend Splash Festival. The provincial government and municipality were spurred into action after President Cyril Ramaphosa and his cabinet put in strict measures to contain the deadly coronavirus when he declared a national disaster on Sunday. A total of 62 people across the country have tested positive for the virus. According to the National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD),  while all the initial infections were  of people who had travelled abroad,  there have since been cases of local transmission of the novel COVID-19 virus. The Eastern Cape has no confirmed cases,  with 28 people tested in the province so far. Premier Oscar Mabuyane said in Bhisho on Monday that his government was anxious about the virus reaching the province — particularly the rural areas. “The issue of infrastructure in the province is a problem and this is why we’re nervous  —  that if this thing comes into our province, it’ll be very difficult to contain, knowing the set-up of our rural areas,” Mabuyane said. He was speaking  at a media conference, along with health MEC Sindiswa Gomba and legislature speaker Helen Sauls-August. Mabuyane said checkpoints would be set up at all points of entry to the province, including  roads, airports and ports. Screening kits would be allocated to each checkpoint. “We will use marquee facilities as field hospitals. “We will assign professional nurses from the system to work in field hospitals to provide care to the patients.” Mabuyane said 1,000 nursing assistants would be hired for 12 months while 2,000 professional nurses would be trained to deal with the virus. “All health workers working on this pandemic will be given personal protective equipment such as N95 masks, gloves and plastic aprons to use. “We are preparing hospitals to be ready for the treatment of severe cases.” He said the province’s 38 laboratories would  be used to test any suspected cases. Because the Eastern Cape was strongly reliant on the manufacturing industry, Mabuyane said discussions were being held with industry leaders. “There will be an inevitable effect on the economy. Almost 90% of products produced in the automotive sector are exported outside the country. “We’ve got a plan to make sure measures the government has put in place will be followed. “We don’t want to see people being jobless so consultations will take place and a more comprehensive response will follow,” the premier  said. Gomba said any supplies and equipment needed to battle the virus would be procured when needed. As part of the state of disaster, the national government announced a number of drastic and urgent measures on Monday. These include: Meanwhile, 23 events in Nelson Mandela Bay have been postponed as a result of the pandemic. The  events were all supported by the municipality, but  acting mayor ThsononoBuyeye said  the city had no choice after Ramaphosa  announced measures to contain the  spread of the virus. The events were meant to run from March 21 to May 9  and included the SPAR  Women’s Challenge on Saturday, the Haval Muck Run from  April 18 to  19 and the Fitch and Leeds Gin Festival on April 27. Buyeye said municipal officials had met  event organisers early on Monday  and it had been decided to postpone the events. “We met with the stakeholders of these events and it was agreed to postpone them,” he said. “Our tourism and sporting industries will be heavily affected by this,” he said. Buyeye said it  was too early to tell how badly the coronavirus would affect the city’s economy. “This is clearly a disaster but we don’t have all the answers just yet — we are working on mitigating the  effects that do come. “It is almost Easter and we know people converge together for this weekend. “We will be speaking to religious leaders to explain in more detail the dangers of mass gatherings.” He said a forum would be established that included various event organisers, the Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber, the National African Federated Chamber of Commerce and Industry, religious leaders and medical doctors to ensure the municipality kept abreast of the situation and acted quickly. “This forum will look at all aspects,  including cruise ships due to dock in the city.” Buyeye said speaker Buyelwa Mafaya had written to the department of co-operative governance and traditional affairs to find out if council meetings should be postponed. “We are meant to pass our draft budget soon, according to government regulations, so we will wait for the department to advise us on what to do.” He said the forum would also determine how to police gatherings of more than  100 people, including funerals. The municipality would formulate an action plan to start an “aggressive” campaign to raise awareness on the virus. Eastern Cape health department spokesperson Sizwe Kupelo said  15 people had tested negative in Nelson Mandela Bay so far.