All pending and fresh cases set down on the Port Elizabeth High Court’s criminal roll during  the 21-day coronavirus lockdown period will be postponed, the court heard on Wednesday. The decision resulted in 14 criminal  cases — among them the high-profile Timothy Omotoso rape and human trafficking trial — being  postponed on Wednesday. This came after senior state prosecutor Mujaahid Sandan told judge Mandela Makaula that, following a directive from  the judge president, no cases would be heard in the Port Elizabeth High Court. “For all part-heard and fresh matters further dates will be arranged,” Sandan said. The decision follows a circular sent out on Tuesday by Eastern Cape judge president Selby Mbenenge to the  registrar’s offices of various courts,  urging them not to set down any cases to be heard over the  lockdown. On Wednesday, Sandan told Makaula that he — along with fellow state prosecutor Liesel Landman and head of the Legal Aid Port Elizabeth high court division, advocate Jodine Coertzen — had contacted various counsels for accused persons standing trial  to confirm the postponement dates. Of the 14 criminal cases  that were postponed, none of the accused were in court on Wednesday for various reasons, including  getting them there from correctional  facilities. The facilities included  St Albans prison  where, according to Sandan, certain sections were not allowing prisoners out of the  grounds at all. Invoking section 159 of the Criminal Procedures Act (CPA), which provides for cases to be heard without the presence of an accused, Makaula postponed the cases which included, among others: Judiciary spokesperson   Nathi Mncube said on Wednesday that, after two directives issued by chief justice Mogoeng Mogoeng, all courts would continue to operate to a limited extent to “deal with urgent matters” during lockdown. “The chief justice has ...  delegated the authority to make customised directives to all heads of superior and lower/magistrate courts,” Mncube said. This would allow courts to remain  operational to a limited extent as determined by the head of each court, he said. “Broadly, the courts will, as an essential service, remain open for the filing of papers and hearing of urgent applications, bail applications and appeals, or matters relating to violations of liberty, domestic violence, maintenance and matters involving children,” Mncube said.   