School attendance, matric farewells, graduations as well as local and international excursions are among the many educational activities that have either been postponed or cancelled in the wake of an increasing number of  Covid-19 cases in SA. The school calendar will also be amended to make up for lost  days of schooling, with both the June and September holidays to be shortened. Basic education minister  Angie Motshekga said on Monday that an assessment around  Covid-19 had been done and the department was taking  drastic steps to curb the spread of the outbreak. Motshekga said the decision to suspend schooling from Wednesday was taken after schools were identified as among  the biggest potential threats in terms of transmission. The Council of Education Ministers (CEM) met on Monday morning to brief provincial education offices and ensure measures were put in place to mitigate the impact of the virus. Some of the measures  include: The minister said now was the time for parents also to play their part in the education of their children. The Eastern Cape education department  has  put together a four-part instruction plan on the prevention and management of Covid-19, which has been signed off by basic education department director-general Mathanzima Mweli and superintendent-general Themba Kojana. Some of these measures include:  Mweli said the school calendar would be amended to make up for the loss of nine days of schooling. “To recover the academic programme, the June   holiday will be shortened by seven school days and the September   holiday will be shortened by two school days. “The coronavirus crisis will be monitored daily, and regular communication and updates will be pronounced. “Though schools have been closed, the closure does not extend to office-based institutions which will remain open to provide services to the education sector,” Mweli said.  Several universities across SA have also  suspended all academic activities. In the Eastern Cape, all lectures, exams and events have been suspended at Nelson Mandela University, Rhodes University and the University of Fort Hare. In a statement  by  Rhodes on Monday,  vice-chancellor Sizwe Mabizela said all events which involved people from outside Makhanda between now and June  would be postponed, cancelled or reverted as an online event, and that would include  graduation ceremonies. NMU vice-chancellor Professor Sibongile Muthwa said the wellbeing of students and staff was the university’s priority. “In this highly volatile time, regular updates on our response to this challenge will be communicated to the university community using the official institutional platforms, as well as the dedicated website,” Muthwa said.