A neighbour has described the Port Elizabeth man who shot dead his daughter before turning the gun on himself as “nice people”. The murder-suicide happened at the family’s home in Fifth Avenue, Newton Park, at about 11pm on Sunday. Cancer patient Johannes Maritz, 74, who had been suffering from stage four lung cancer, shot and fatally wounded his daughter Merisa, 47, in her bedroom before turning the gun on himself. Maritz’s younger daughter, who had been visiting from the Western Cape, was not injured. When a team from The Herald visited the house  at about noon on Monday it was locked, with no-one home. A neighbour, who declined to be named, said  she had slept through the commotion. “I arrived home late and fell asleep. I honestly heard nothing and only realised when I read it [online on Monday morning]. “It is so awful and I am so shocked,” she said. “Johan and his daughter had been living there for several years. “They were such nice people and always popped in for a chat.” The woman said  the last conversation she had had with Maritz had been a few weeks ago, when  they had spoken about  the chemotherapy treatment he was undergoing. “He absolutely hated it,” she said. “When I spoke to him last he told me that  [the cancer] had spread to his other lung. “He was complaining about how bad the chemo was and how it made him feel.” “I would  never have thought he would do something like this. Why did he kill her [Merisa]?” The woman said at one stage she had been making beetroot and carrot juice for Maritz as part of his cancer treatment. “They were such nice people. I really cannot believe that this happened.” A hospice care worker arrived at the home  on Monday to meet  the family, unaware of the tragedy that had played out there. The care worker said she had been trying to get hold of Maritz since last week. Other  neighbours did not want to talk about the incident. Police spokesperson Captain Sandra Janse van Rensburg said Maritz’s  younger daughter, 46, who police are not naming, was visiting from Moorreesburg, in the Western Cape, and was in the home at the time of the shooting. “They all went to bed and it appears that shortly before 11pm the [younger] daughter heard movement in the house. “After a while, she became suspicious and went to investigate,” Janse van Rensburg said. Officers on the scene said Maritz  shot Merisa in her bedroom, prompting his  other daughter to run to her own bedroom to call for help. “She heard a second gunshot and found her father in the bathroom later, where he had shot himself,” Janse van Rensburg said. According to police, the firearm was registered to Maritz.