Port Elizabeth police have cautioned the public to be wary  when receiving and sending social media posts after two separate reports of alleged attempted abductions went viral. In the first incident, a 28-year-old man was arrested and charged for attempted abduction after it was alleged that he tried to snatch a child from a car at Mentor’s Plaza in Jeffreys Bay last Thursday. Police spokesperson Sergeant Majola Nkohli said the case had been withdrawn after video footage showed no indication that the man tried to take the child. “In the footage there is no indication of attempted abduction, there was no pulling of the child and the man did not run away,” Nkohli said. He said the man never opened the door of the father’s car or attempted to grab the child. “There is no substance to what is being said,” Nkohli said. In a separate incident, a voicenote making the rounds on WhatsApp claimed a man attempted to kidnap a young child who was at Metlife Mall with their mother on Monday morning. In the voicenote it is claimed that  while one person allegedly tried to get the  attention of the mother,  a second person attempted to take the child. It was then alleged that the matter was reported to police. Police spokesperson Colonel Priscilla Naidu said after police viewed the security footage there was no indication of a man attempting to take the child. “According to the footage, it would appear that a person attempted to make conversation or beckon a female towards her handbag or something (no sound on the footage). “She was in front of him and there were other people behind him in the queue waiting to enter [Checkers]. “There appeared to be an exchange of words and the male went about doing his shopping and the woman continued with her shopping. “From the video footage, one cannot make any speculations as to the motive of the male in the video,” Naidu said. She warned the public to be aware of their surroundings at all times. “Always make sure that your handbags are securely fastened or zipped and children kept as close to you as possible,” Naidu said. Naidu said people needed to be more cautious when receiving or sending  social media posts and voicenotes. “Police would like to advise the public to be cautious and to analyse the situation before taking to social media. “If in doubt, contact the police. In this way we can alleviate unnecessary panic circulating on social media,” Naidu said.