September is Heritage Month, and to celebrate we asked a trio of local cookbook authors to share a recipe they think every South African cook worth their salt should have in their repertoire. “This tomato bredie recipe is one of the five most popular dishes on my social media platforms,” says Cape Malay food expert Fatima Sydow who, together with her twin sister, Gadija Sydow Noordien, is the author of Cape, Curry & Koesisters (Human & Rousseau). “I feel it’s important to have our children grow up with the taste of Cape Malay traditional dishes. In turn we keep the recipes alive and accumulate fond memories of food, family and togetherness.” Serves: 6 Ingredients: 60ml (¼ cup) oil 3 onions, finely chopped ½ green pepper, finely chopped 3 cinnamon sticks 3 whole allspice (pimento) 2 chillies, finely chopped 3 cloves garlic, finely grated 1kg lamb, mutton or beef, cubed 10ml (2 tsp) salt 7,5 ml (1 ½ tsp) ground black pepper 200g tomato paste 45ml (3 tbsp) sugar 7 potatoes, peeled and quartered 15ml (1 tbsp) butter Method: Cook's tip: “Whenever I cook a dish to which I have added tomato paste, I add 15ml (1 tbsp) butter at the end. This helps to reduce the acidity level,” says Sydow. TRY more of Sydow's recipes: Butter chicken curry, hearty chicken and vegetable soup and labarang mince pie “The king of the braai, chicken wings are a go-to dish that you need to know how to cook to perfection with minimum fuss and stress, whether you are camping in the pondoks or chilling on your balcony in the middle of a city,” says celebrity chef and restaurateur Reuben Riffel, author of Braai: Reuben on Fire (Quivertree). “I love our own southern African peri-peri influences,” he adds. Serves: 4 Ingredients: 8 chicken wings 2 pinches of salt 2 pinches black pepper 1 tsp (5ml) thyme 15ml (1tbsp) olive oil 8 bamboo skewers, soaked in water Peri-peri sauce: 1 onion, sliced 15 chillies, chopped and deseeded, or to taste 4 red peppers 100ml red wine vinegar 30g smoked paprika Method: TRY Riffel's recipe for a baked apple pudding with vanilla custard and check out his braai tips. “Chakalaka is such a typical colourful South African side dish that reflects our country's beautiful cuisine,” says chef and actress Lucia Mthiyane, author of Kitchen Queen (Human & Rousseau). Ingredients: 100g butter 1 red onion, chopped 2.5ml (½ tsp) crushed garlic 2.5ml (½ tsp) grated ginger 4 red tomatoes, chopped 1 red pepper, deseeded and chopped 1 green pepper, deseeded and chopped 3 large carrots, grated or julienned 1 whole cob of corn, kernels cut off 1—2 red chillies, deseeded and finely chopped (if you like the heat, keep the seeds) 5ml (1 tsp) smoked paprika 5ml  (1 tsp) masala powder Method: TRY the recipe for Mthiyane's signature yoghurt and cream lamb curry.