South Korean health officials are investigating several possible explanations for a small but growing number of recovered coronavirus patients who later test positive for the virus again. Among the main possibilities are reinfection, a relapse or inconsistent tests, experts say. South Korea had reported 141 such cases as of Thursday, according to the Korea Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (KCDC). Though reinfection would be the most concerning scenario because of its implications for developing immunity in a population, both the KCDC and many experts say this is unlikely. Instead, the KCDC says it is leaning towards some kind of relapse or “reactivation” in the virus. A relapse could mean parts of the virus go into some kind of dormant state for a time, or that some patients may have certain conditions or weak immunity that makes them susceptible to the virus reviving in their system, experts say. A recent study by doctors in China and the US suggested the virus can damage T lymphocytes, also known as T cells, which play a central role in the body’s immune system and ability to battle infections. Kim Jeong-ki, a virologist at the Korea University College of Pharmacy, compared a relapse after treatment to a spring that snaps back after being pressed down. Even if the patients are found to have relapsed rather than to have been reinfected, it could signal new challenges for containing the spread of the virus. “South Korean health authorities still haven’t found cases where the ‘reactivated’ patients spread the virus to third parties, but if such infectiousness is proven, that would be a huge problem,” said vaccine development expert Seol Dai-wu,  who is a professor at Chung-Ang University. Patients in South Korea are considered clear of the virus when they have tested negative twice in a 48-hour period. While the RT-PCR tests used in South Korea are  generally accurate, experts said there were ways they could return false or inconsistent results for a small number of cases. “RT-PCR tests boast an accuracy of 95%. This means there still can be 2%-5% of those cases that are detected false negative or false positive cases,” Kim said. Seol said that remnants of the virus could remain at levels too low to be detected by a given test. On the other hand, the tests may also be so sensitive that they are picking up small, potentially harmless levels of the virus, leading to new positive results even though the person has recovered, Kwon Jun-wook, deputy director of KCDC said  on Tuesday. The tests could also be compromised if  samples were not collected properly, said Eom Joong-sik, professor of infectious diseases at Gachon University Gil Medical Centre. — Reuters