A DA ward councillor in Nelson Mandela Bay has been arrested, charged and issued with a R5,000 fine, according to the police. The Ward 11 councillor, Abraham Isaacs, is accused by the police of signing a permit for a businessman in Korsten to be able to buy goods. The regulations in the Disaster Management Act prohibits councillors from signing permits for the public. National police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo said the  councillor was issued with a R5,000 fine and charged in terms of regulation 11 (1) (C) of the Disaster Management Act. It is alleged by the police that a businessman who trades in  Durban Road — whose name was  not disclosed by police — was issued with a permit to purchase certain goods  not considered to be essential items on April 15. According to Naidoo, the businessman was stopped at a vehicle checkpoint in Hankey the next day and  issued with a fine for travelling without a valid permit. “On further investigation the ward councillor was traced and was arrested [on April 22] by SAPS Gelvandale detectives,” Naidoo said. But Isaacs denied he was arrested, saying  he had merely gone to the police station to give further information. “The police wanted to know my side of the story,” Isaacs said. According to Isaacs, informal traders were making copies of permits emanating from his office which were not officially granted or authorised. “The police merely wanted clarity from my side,” Isaacs said. But according to Naidoo, after he was charged, Isaacs paid a R5,000 fine. DA provincial leader Nqaba Bhanga said he was aware of the situation as he had instructed Isaacs to report to the police. Bhanga  said Isaacs was charged and fined R5,000. “It is alleged [Isaacs] had given somebody a permit to go shopping,” he said. “We are busy investigating to determine whether it was an honest mistake or a deliberate flouting of the regulations. “I sent him  to report to the police station with a DA representative. “He has been charged,” Bhanga said. Asked if he was aware that people were making copies of legitimate permits and altering them, Bhanga said it  was possible and this would form part of their investigations into the matter.