 As a little girl she was seldom seen without a book and as a teenager she managed to balance schoolwork, cultural activities and sports —  now she aims to become a doctor. And with her fierce determination, there is little that can stand in the way of St Dominic’s Priory  matriculant Fadzai Ngwerume. Fadzai, who obtained a full house of seven distinctions, also   made it onto the Independent Examination Board’s (IEB) commendable achievements list for  pupils  in the top 5% in five subjects and achieved a level 7 rating in life orientation. Fadzai’s parents on Tuesday proudly described their over-achieving daughter as a self-motivated young lady. She received a 91.7% overall aggregate. Her father, Charles,  said his daughter had  finished first in her class since grade 6. “She’s always known when to study and when to take a break.” Charles said Fadzai would be studying medicine in 2019, adding that she just needed to decide between the University of Cape Town and Stellenbosch University. “We are happy with either university, she actually applied to all universities and all of them offered her a scholarship. “But she would like to study at UCT or Stellenbosch and we are happy with either one. Fadzai later told The Herald she had set her heart on  Stellenbosch. “We’re quite happy and at the very same time humbled by her achievements and as parents we will continue to support her every endeavour,” Charles said, adding that Fadzai had set the standard for her younger brother, who is in grade 9. Fadzai’s mother, Rose,  said her daughter showed her love for her books from a  young age, adding that as a little girl she always read  when the family travelled. “As parents we’ve never had to force Fadzai to study — her love for books came naturally. She always had a book with her even as a little girl. “Her achievement shows that all the long hours and time spent studying truly paid off. “She has really done us proud and as she moves on to study medicine, we only pray that she can keep up the outstanding work — but most importantly have a positive contribution to society and become a responsible citizen,” she said. Asked how she did it, Fadzai said revision and practice were  key. “I make a lot of notes to make sure I understand the work and than I spend a lot of time going over past papers so that I can cover all possible questions. “It’s important to know what the examiners want  and that’s what you get from all the past papers. “I study until I feel comfortable with the work. The time you spend on maths may differ  to the time you spend on life science, depending on how well you understand the work,” she said. Fadzai said she also found a balance between her studies, sports and culture as well as her social life, adding that this helped her de-stress  and reboot. She said she was excited about the  new chapter in her life even though she would be moving out of her comfort zone. “I am going to be studying medicine and I have decided to go to Stellenbosch, and I’ve already started preparing for that — shopping for supplies and stuff like that. “I’m really excited and nervous about moving away from home. “It’s going to be different from high school but I’m really looking forward to becoming a young adult and meeting new people,” Fadzai said. The bookworm said   she would continue to apply herself and keep all the values she had been taught by her parents. “It’s always difficult when you move away from home and meet different characters and you don’t have your parents around to guide you but I want to remain the person that I am now and stay on the right path — and hopefully find people who share the same morals and values.”