It’s that time of the year again, when Christmas trifle makes way for a green salad in your fridge, and what better way to kick-start your new year’s fitness resolutions, than to sign up for the upcoming Herald Cycle Tour? There is only three weeks left to enter for this popular, proudly Eastern Cape race, considered one of the top classic cycle events in SA. Celebrating its 35th race year, organisers of The Herald Cycle Tour attribute this long-standing popularity to the fact that the race brings together cyclists from all walks of life and fitness levels, for a day of fun on their bikes. There is still plenty of time to train for The Herald Cycle Tour, which takes place over two weekends – with the Mountain Bike Challenge and junior races on  February 16 at the Addo Polo Club, and the road race on  February 23 in Port Elizabeth. “With the Road Race, cyclists can look forward to a day out on Nelson Mandela Bay’s roads,”  The Herald Cycle Tour race director Julie Briggs said. “The professional cyclists along with their team managers head off first, followed by the racing groups, and then the more casual cyclists who are there to soak up the views and atmosphere while cycling with their friends.” Apart from spectacular views and great camaraderie, cyclists and their supporters can also look forward to a celebration of entertainment at the Race Village at Pollok Beach on  February 23. Race Village attractions include kiddies’ activation zones with jumping castles, face painting and balloon art, as well as popular food trucks, a beer garden and amazing live entertainment from Nelson Mandela Bay’s best  talent. Expect nothing less at the Mountain Bike Challenge and junior races on  February 16 at the Addo Polo Club. Mountain bike race director Brad Jackson said the Mountain Bike Race Village includes a farmers’ market, an assortment of food stalls and a children’s play area. Some cyclists even choose to camp at the Race Village and have a braai the night before the race. The road race in Port Elizabeth is open to riders over 12 years only, while the Mountain Bike Challenge in Addo will include a 5km kiddies ride and 500m toddlers dash. Mountain Bike Challenge riders must be older than 13 years for the 30km race, older than 15 years for the 60km race and older than 19 years for the 80km race. For more information or to register, visit www.heraldcycletour.co.za.