After an extremely hot start to the week, with temperatures reaching as high as 40°C in parts of the Eastern Cape, residents can expect some relief  with rains predicted from Thursday. By Wednesday afternoon, temperatures had started  cooling down in the western side of the province, with wet weather conditions expected until Saturday,  Eastern Cape SA Weather Service spokesperson Garth Sampson said. According to the SA Weather Service forecast, cooler conditions are expected on Thursday and Friday but a slight rise in temperatures is expected from Saturday through to Tuesday. Sampson said a forecast for next week and the rest of February was not yet available. He said on Tuesday  the official discomfort index had already reached 110 in some parts of the Eastern Cape. He said February was usually one of the warmer months of the year and advised residents to take precautions. “When temperature and humidity are high at the same time, human ability to cool their bodies through sweating is reduced. This can be a real threat,” Sampson said. In cases of high discomfort and heatwaves, residents are advised to: Social media users took to Twitter and Facebook to comment on the high temperatures and discomfort over the past three days. Twitter user @LeboWho tweeted: “PE and it’s dodgy weather made me sweat today” Another Twitter  user, @CameronMaree16  said he blamed popular DJs Kabza and Maphorisa’s newly released album, Scorpion Kings Live, for the heat. “I blame Kabza and Maphorisa for this hot weather. Scorpion Kings Live album was just too hot for PE,” the user tweeted. User @SpacetheGemini also complained about the  weather, saying she even missed the city;s wind. “I regret all the times I complained about PE being winter in summer ... Yhey kushushu!!! [It;s hot] I even miss the wind that used to blow me away,” she tweeted. While Port Elizabeth residents complained about the heat, some residents in other parts of the Eastern Cape seemed to envy Bay residents, with one East London Twitter user saying she missed PE weather. “[I] never thought I’d say this but I miss iWeather yase PE. EL weather is craaaaaazy. akant [I can’t deal] with the heat all day,” tweeted user @BakhoSekete. Other Twitter and Facebook users shared humorous memes and jokes about the weather conditions.