From schoolboys to inmates and initiates, the Phila Ndoda movement is hoping to improve the lives of men while also fighting against women and child abuse. The Port Elizabeth-based movement, with more than 500 members, was established in 2017 shortly after controversial pastor Timothy Omotoso was arrested with charges including racketeering, contravention of the sexual offences act, human trafficking and rape, among others. Founder Zolile Dayimani, 53, said his movement  connected to the nation’s cry against women and children abuse, and sought ways to uplift and improve men so they could become better citizens. “The men  in our society are always linked up to the abuse of children and women, and that is not how men are supposed to be. “We are born to be providers, protectors, leaders and not abusers,” he said. Dayimani said  many were caught up in the belief that “men don’t cry" and often failed to speak out and voice  their issues and frustrations, which led them to negative practices. “Most men still believe in the lie that tigers don’t cry," he said. “We are humans with emotions and it’s good to cry. “Phila Ndoda is there to create a space where men can speak about their issues and how to behave in society,” he said. He added that gender-based violence was also affecting men, but that men did not speak out and then took  their anger out on innocent people. “Many men suffer in silence. “We host dialogues with men so  we can engage both women and men, and  so we can have a better society. “Our movement’s aim is a day where women can bump into a man, and feel safe and secure,” he added. Since the movement was born, it had hosted mentoring programmes  in  schools in Nelson Mandela Bay, sessions with inmates at St Albans prison,  and also with initiates during the initiation period. “Men and government are not doing enough for young men, and we have discovered that the isolated group in the society is the one [causing]  havoc. “We believe in building men, building a nation,” Dayimani said. Movement member Luxolo Semane, 35, said since he had joined the movement his view on life and how women should be treated had changed. “Phila Ndoda changed my life,” he said. “Now, when I walked down the streets, I am able to respect a woman and defend her when I see she is in a tough situation.” He said his wish was for the movement to reach  every man in the country. “Man is very vulnerable and will never show it, because of the social expectations of them. “Our movement is there to assist, engage and bridge the gap caused by many factors resulting in the abuse of women and children,” he said.