Seven contractors will be hired  by the Nelson Mandela Bay municipality next month to tackle the more than 10,000 leaks  across the city. This is part of infrastructure executive director Walter Shaidi’s drought management plan which was adopted by councillors at yesterday’s  council meeting. Shaidi said he was unable to reveal further details on the companies as the bid evaluation committee was still dealing with the appointments. However, he said the seven contractors would be responsible for hiring subcontractors to rid the city of water leaks. “We have to have the contractors to sort this out. They have the machines and equipment which the municipality does not,” he said. A barge was also being refurbished to remove the last bit of water — called dead storage — from the Impofu Dam, which is sitting at 16.71%. Once the refurbishment is done by April, this would give the city an extra 35Ml/d. However, this would only help for about six months when no more water can be extracted. Shaidi said three additional plumbers would be hired and  workers on the Expanded Public Works Programme would  be used in fixing leaks with the seven new contractors. “We are now using 290Ml/d, which is far too high. We need to reduce this to at 210 Ml/d.” After his briefing, a number of councillors questioned how they could ask residents to save more water when leaks went unfixed. ANC councillor Gamalihleli Maqula said it appeared as if it rained every day in the city. “Rain is not as scarce as we are made to believe. The streets have water running down them all the time. How much water are we losing just because of the leaks?” Shaidi said the city lost about 87Ml/d to water leaks, with the majority coming from schools. “We are speaking to the public works department about sorting this out,” he said. ACDP councillors Lance Grootboom questioned why contractors had not been hired before. “We are not managing this crisis very much. Soon we will have water-shedding,” he said. In the long term, Shaidi requested that acting city manager Noxolo Nqwazi be given approval to hire the Coega Development Corporation  as an implementing agent for a desalination plant. “We also request that she be given approval to sign off on all related drought intervention agreements in consultation with the mayor,” Shaidi said. 