 Fresh water has been streaming down  Gladiolus Street in Malabar for months — leaving residents questioning how serious the Nelson Mandela Bay municipality is about conserving water. Ismail Aboo, who wrote to Metro Matters, said the water just kept on gushing out of a leak near a verge in front of  Cassim’s Mini Market. He said the leak had been reported to the municipality numerous times — but no-one ever came out to fix it. “I just can’t believe the amount of water that is being wasted,” Aboo said. Aboo, who said he always shops at the market, said his friend had first reported the leak month ago. “I then contacted the municipality and reported the leak but  nothing has been done about it,” he said. He said another leak close to  Gladiolus Street had been fixed quickly after a municipal worker reported it. “A team came and fixed that leak. They dug and left the hole open and when that municipal worker complained they came to cover the hole. “We desperately need help as this is pure, clean water being wasted. Ward 12 councillor Sharlene Davids could not be reached for comment. Municipal spokesperson Mthubanzi Mniki said a team would attend to the leak. “We are now trying to use the limited resources we have to reach every corner and fix in the quickest possible time. The pending augmentation of our water leaks team will improve the situation,” Mniki said. He urged residents to continue reporting the leaks to 0800-205-050. Meanwhile, a New Brighton man is at his wits’ end and is desperately trying to get help from the  municipality after a water junction box in his garden started to leak — with water dripping on the electric cables used for his gate. Vuyo Boyana, 50, who has lived in the house for years, said the box had started to leak last month  and got worse every day. He said he had reported the problem several times to the municipality but no-one had come to fix it. “I noticed the leak on January 12 and I immediately informed the municipality,” he said. “But now the leak is getting worse and I fear that the stagnant water could damage my electronic gate cables because it gathers around the box,” he said. Boyana, who is unemployed, said he had considered hiring a plumber but feared this would result in him tampering with municipal property. “I have decided to switch off the water tap at night and when I leave the house during the day. “I fear that if I just leave this leaking it would eventually flood in my garden. “I fear that the leak could do more damage to the pipes if there is nothing being done to fix it.” Boyana said he had attempted to report the matter to the ward councillor but no-one had come to fix the problem. “I don’t know what to do any more. No-one seems to be interested to come and fix the leak. It’s clean, fresh water being wasted, yet the city has a serious water shortage.” Ward 16 councillor Celia Mtati could not be reached for comment. Mniki said the municipal team would be sent out.