Three SA “Kings of Culture” dazzled  at the US Super Bowl LIV event in Miami, Florida, last weekend, describing  it as the “most magical moment”. Port Elizabeth’s  Moonchild Sanelly, BET award winner Sho Madjozi, and award-winning illustrator and street artist Karabo “Poppy” Moletsane shared elements of  SA with the world. The trio was among 200 other artists from 20 countries — including the Black Eyed Peas and DJ Diplo, who performed on the Budweiser experience stage (BUDX) as part of the Super Bowl 100-year celebration. Speaking about her BUDX experience, international influencer  Sanelly, who was featured on Beyoncé Knowles’s album The Lion King: The Gift, said it was an experience she always read about  as a child. This year’s Super Bowl —  the annual championship game of the National Football League —  programme was jam-packed with  music, art, fashion and sport. The BUDX stage was set up in South Beach, Miami, where a series of events and performances by “Kings of Culture” from across the globe kept the crowd busy. “The entire BUDX Miami experience was the most rock-star thing I’ve ever done, and with the most exposure and access. “Amazing people from 20 countries were all in one’s reach,”  Sanelly said. She added that she had had a moment where she thought: “Is this really my life?” Sanelly is no stranger to  Miami, having  performed there alongside American  Diplo last year. She said when she  received the invite and saw Diplo was also performing she knew she had to collaborate with him. “I called him immediately after seeing his name and told him ‘we are going to be together again, my American stage husband’,” she said, laughing. Their   surprise performance  took the BUDX stage by storm. Sanelly delivered a crowd-pleasing  performance, and  her signature blue locks and animated personality were a huge drawcard. “BUDX was definitely one of the most exciting creative platforms to be part of and perform at. “It was fantastic to meet so many inspiring and creative-minded people,” she said. “Having the opportunity to perform in front of a global audience of creatives as an artist was challenging but liberating. “I’m very proud to be an African and as a country we have much to be proud of as well.” Also serving the NFL fans some African flavour as part of the BUDX Miami programme,  Sho Madjozi shared the  African spirit of celebration. Madjozi   brought the party with her everywhere she went,  singing and dancing on   bus rides to the stadium. “This BUDX Miami experience and the chance to see the NFL Super Bowl LIV was a real dream come true,” she said. “Performing on stage with Diplo was amazing. “Creating and telling stories through music, dance and singing is in our blood [as Africans]. “We are the original culture makers and the world can't get enough. The message is clear, we must take our place on the world stage,”  Madjozi  said. Moletsane said: “I am so proud to represent the voice of the African aesthetic. “To show the world, on a platform like BUDX Miami, how modern and relevant our creativity is was a great privilege.” Budweiser Africa marketing manager Thomas Lawrence said BUDX Miami was  about  Kings of Culture coming together to  share their stories and “own” the spotlight in front of a global audience. He said the SA trio dominated the weekend not only with their performances, but by putting a definitive African stamp on the event.