The law fraternity has expressed its shock and deep sadness at the untimely death of Eastern Cape judge and activist, Patrick Jaji, from Covid-19. Jaji, 53, died in  hospital on Sunday after testing positive for the virus,  according to a statement by the office of the chief justice. “The effects of the Covid-19 pandemic have now reached the doorstep of the judiciary in a very real and saddening way,” judge president Selby Mbenenge said. “Judge Jaji was a dedicated bastion of the constitution and rule of law. His untimely death robs us of the opportunity to experience his future contribution to the judiciary.” Jaji was appointed to the high court on  November 1 2017 after   serving as an attorney from 1996 until 2010. He obtained his B Proc and LLB degrees at the University of KwaZulu-Natal and in 2003  obtained an MSc in transport and maritime management, from Antwerp University in Belgium. The statement further read: “Judge Jaji’s loss will be deeply felt by his colleagues and the staff in the Eastern Cape division of the High Court. “The judiciary extends its heartfelt condolences to his wife, his children, family and friends. May his soul rest in peace.” Friends of the judge took to Facebook to mourn his death. A friend, Dianne Hammond, posted: “Patrick I have no words for this great loss, but I have very fond memories, you were the best teacher and mentor. “I will always treasure your stories and our discussions and laughs. I will truly miss you. May God be with your family at this time. Rest in peace until we meet again” Another friend, ‎‎Paul Bester,‎ said: “Rest in peace friend! Words cannot express our heartache in your compassion you shared in your profession What a personality!” Meghan von Wildemann said he was a gem and she was going to miss his sense of humour. Jali was also a former council member of the Law Society of SA  and former National Association of Democratic Lawyers (Nadel) secretary-general. Nadel president Mvuso Notyesi said the judge belonged to a generation of activists who in the early 1980s confronted the apartheid regime as part of the Congress of South African Students  and since then his life became synonymous with the youth resistance against apartheid. “He became the central figure in the South African National Student Congress in the then University of Durban Westville and later became a founding member of the South African Students Congress .”