There is still no sign of John Doch after he walked out of the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium’s coronavirus isolation unit almost seven weeks ago. John Doch, 73, who lives in Graaff-Reinet, was driven by ambulance to the stadium at 9pm on June 4 after testing positive for Covid-19. Less than 24 hours later, he was nowhere to be found. He was admitted with his grandchildren, Elrico, 23, and Portia Doch, 26. Both of them could not be reached for comment on Wednesday. Doch has been missing since 2.30pm on June 5 after camera footage recorded him being let out of the stadium by a security guard. Police spokesperson Colonel Priscilla Naidu confirmed Doch had yet to be found. “We are still searching for the missing man. “We follow up on any information that is received,” she said. Elrico had shared a suite with his grandfather on the night they arrived. The next morning they had left the suite so it could be deep-cleaned. The two had sat on the stands overlooking the field and eventually, Elrico left Doch on the stands when he returned to his room. When Elrico returned 30 minutes later, his grandfather had vanished and he claimed that the stadium security only reported Doch’s disappearance hours later. The stadium was identified as an isolation site in April and is managed by the Mandela Bay Development Agency (MBDA). It is guarded by two security companies, with M Secure handling the internal protection and HRG watching  the outside. The security guard worked for M Secure and he was not at his post, resulting in Doch walking through a security checkpoint unnoticed. MBDA spokesperson Luvuyo Bangazi said M Secure had been supporting the police searching for the missing Doch. “These efforts include search operations within the immediate stadium precinct, publication on police forums WhatsApp groups, published missing persons notices in regional newspapers, social media and conducting patrols,” he said. However, he said the official investigation was being handled by the police. “They have reported to us that the matter is still under investigation and, that like the police, they are in touch with the family.” In the security footage, taken just before he vanished,  Doch was seen wearing a black beanie and  black jacket with a blue shirt and yellow T-shirt underneath. Since  his disappearance, additional checks are taking place while fencing has been installed between the building and the outer perimeter gate. This was the first time such an incident had occurred at the stadium.