Eastern Cape deputy judge president  David van Zyl said  on Tuesday that although the country was still under national lockdown,  the Port Elizabeth High Court would  enroll matters to proceed in the interest of justice. Criminal court cases involving multiple accused persons will only be heard later in the year, while fresh matters will be dealt with from late July and part-heard matters will go ahead  next week. Special precautions will be in place to ensure the safety and wellbeing of all relevant stakeholders. Van Zyl said new directives issued by chief justice Mogoeng Mogoeng on Monday gave judge presidents of the different divisions authority to issue directives  to proceed with criminal trials. According to the directives, anyone who enters the court building must wear a facial shield or mask at all times and  social distancing of at least 1.5m must be observed by everyone in a courtroom. On Tuesday, when a reporter from The Herald entered courtroom A at the High Court building in Bird Street,  red and white barrier tape had been placed  in strategic areas of the courtroom. This included strips placed on benches in the public gallery indicating a 1.5m space between seats for  members of the public. Red strip tape had been placed on the tables where prosecutors and defence counsels  are stationed, keeping them 1.5m apart, and there was barrier tape in the dock to keep prisoners apart  during court proceedings. Van Zyl said the precautions  which included only two courtrooms being used  for criminal matters,  was in line with  the maintenance of an appropriate distance between court staff, members of the public, accused persons and other officials. “There are various factors taken into account when deciding when to enroll a matter [and] the protocol is that only people with material interests in the matter[s] will be allowed in [the courtrooms]. “We find ourselves in a situation described by many as ‘fluid’ and we will need to adjust as we go along,” Van Zyl said. Should lockdown levels change, the court would have to adapt accordingly, Van Zyl said. In total, 19 cases were postponed on Tuesday, 10 of which are part-heard matters and four of those at the stage for sentencing proceedings to continue. The  part-heard matter involving three people accused of human trafficking and the rape of a 13-year-old girl was postponed to December 1. On May 26, sentencing proceedings in the trial of convicted murderers Junior Lungisa and Sizwe Jika, who were found guilty in February of the  murder of 86-year-old Anne Smit, is expected to get under way. Pre-sentencing proceedings of convicted murderers Mbuyiseli Pikoli, 37, and Vuyani Sifunda, 21, who were found guilty of the  murders of Tyrone Winston Jantjies, 52, Kenneth John Alexander, 76, and his partner Elaine Allwright, 78, and the attempted murder of Thembalethu Ndiyane, 23, is  expected to be heard on June 22. Among the nine fresh cases expected to begin later this year is  the  trial involving Wayne Russouw, his mother, Christine, sister Chantelle and  Ronald Swartz, who are  accused of the murder of Petrus Scholtz, 70. The trial is due  to begin on October 6. Former Fidelity Security driver Nontuthuzelo Majola, 34, and her co-accused Sonwabo Gcuwa, 36, Lusanda Ludziya, 34, Simthembile Qhongoshani, 33, and Sibongile Nozinxezu, 33, who face a litany of charges  for their roles in a May 2018 cash-in-transit heist, are expected to appear in court on October 6.