Less than two weeks after Pick n Pay in Bluewater Bay closed   in the wake of a Covid-19 scare, its management has confirmed that two staff members had tested positive for the virus. On Saturday,  a staff member of  PR company Corporate Image — which acts on behalf of Pick n Pay —  confirmed that two staff members had received  positive test results on April 28. On April 21, store management confirmed the shop had been closed for 15 minutes after “a misunderstanding regarding an employee testing positive”. When it was found that the employee was not in fact positively diagnosed, the store reopened. Corporate Image’s Janine Caradonna said: “Our Bluewater Bay store was temporarily closed on  April 28, but has since reopened after a specialised cleaning team deep-cleaned and sanitised the entire store. “Those in close contact with the two staff members are at home in self-quarantine and the remainder of the staff were screened by a health practitioner. “To best serve our customers, we have support staff assisting our team in-store until all staff return to work,” management said. Caradonna said the health and safety of customers was Pick n Pay’s  priority and as such,  preventive  measures – such as Perspex screens at all pay points – had been installed. “Expert advice is that frequent and proper handwashing is still the most effective measure against the virus. “We have made hand sanitisers readily available for all staff and customers in stores. “Tills are sanitised after each transaction,” she said. A Bluewater Bay resident, who contacted The Herald about the store, said she had been surprised  when shopping to see she that did not recognise a single employee. The woman, 39, said: “I frequently buy bread at Pick n Pay because you can’t really bulk-buy bread. “As people who use the store often we have come to know our tellers and the team on the floor, but earlier this week when I went to the store I noticed that there was a completely new team. “I asked to speak to the store manager and found that they had replaced him as well,” she said. She said community members had grown close to the staff adding she was worried about those who had been in close contact with the employees. The woman said the matter had been raised in a Bluewater Bay community WhatsApp group, with some residents voicing concern. Many of the community members said they felt Pick n Pay owed it to them to keep them in the loop for their wellbeing and that of the retailer’s customers.