The Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) has been praised for its quick response in disbursing Covid-19 temporary employer/employee relief scheme (Ters) benefits. This after the UIF paid benefits of more than  R11bn   since April 16 for the benefit of 2,047,227 workers through 161,567 companies. According to the department, the method of payment came about   from an agreement reached by the National Economic Development and Labour Council (Nedlac) which represents workers through unions, employers and the community. The Metair group, which consists of a number of companies including Smiths Manufacturing and  First National Batteries,  expressed appreciation for the department’s efforts in paying over the relief benefits. Human resources director Paul Vermaak said: “I can assure you that Metair is appreciative of your department’s efforts starting with day one and had it not been for the constant support of your department of the individuals in the respective subsidiaries, our employees could have been affected detrimentally.” Metair subsidiaries were able to pay almost 7,000 employees  Ters benefits for April. The company also confirmed that all monies received were paid over to the employees. UIF commissioner  Teboho Maruping paid tribute to the fund’s employees and their commitment to being change agents and a force for good during the pandemic. “We have been at the receiving end of some of the vitriolic  [attacks] and I am happy that our colleagues have kept their eyes on the ball and delivered for most of the time,” Maruping said. He urged companies that had not provided the UIF with all the pertinent details to do so in order that a further 503,629 workers could  benefit from more than  R2bn   the department was ready to pay as soon as details were  furnished. “Taking into account that each breadwinner takes care of at least nine others, this means that millions of beneficiaries have been placed in an undesirable position and have been denied what, by law, should be relief benefits at this time,” he said. In addition, there are 22,781 workers who have also not received their monies because their accounts have failed bank verification.  As soon as correct details are furnished, the benefits will  be paid over. More than  R100m  has been held back pending correct details.  